                         kadmin-remctl To-Do List

 * Talking to kadmin and kpasswd via Expect is obviously an ugly hack only
   done because it was expedient.  We should instead be using an
   appropriate Perl module and a native API.  For password changing, this
   would mean enhancing the Authen::Krb5 Perl module to provide an API to
   the password changing functions to do something similar to kpasswd.
   kadmin is harder, since MIT Kerberos doesn't provide a usable API to
   the kadmin client libraries.  Authen::Krb5::Admin hacks around this by
   defining the API itself, but may not work with all versions of Kerberos
   and is fragile.

 * Rather than make password strength checking a boolean and hard-coding
   the policy name, have the password strength checking option take the
   name of the password policy to use.

 * kadmin-remctl should use Net::LDAP or Net::LDAPapi rather than calling
   the external OpenLDAP utilities.

 * The current kadmin-remctl API is rather lame and is only used for
   historical reasons at Stanford.  Introduce a new, cleaner API with
   better structure to the error reporting and replace the current API
   with that.

 * There should be an easier way of setting defaults for passwd_change
   than patching it at build-time, even though it also supports krb5.conf
   parameters.

 * kadmin-backend's check_passwd option could use the username to check
   other things, such as whether the password is based on the username
   and whether the user is reusing their current password (although it
   still couldn't be guaranteed to match every error from change_passwd).

 * kadmin-remctl is really applying a set of operations against different
   realms (AFS kaserver, Kerberos v5, and Active Directory) based on
   per-instance configuration.  Generalize this by using multiple modules
   that serve as providers that perform operations and set rollbacks, so
   that we can determine the provider stack to run and then just run it.

 * Add enable and disable commands for Active Directory based on modifying
   the userAccountControl field and then reuse those for the ksetpass case
   in account creation.

 * Support two configurations for Active Directory: assuming password
   changes propagate, or separate password changes in Active Directory.
   For starters, we could do the second only if there's no K5
   authentication, although that's kind of ugly.

 * We don't roll back Active Directory account creation if Kerberos account
   creation failed any more.  Fix that, which probably requires making all
   of the underlying routines return error messages rather than doing the
   exiting themselves.

 * It would be nice to be able to use the same modules for kadmin calls in
   wallet as we use here.

 * Look at using IPC::Run for the communication to programs instead of
   rolling our own.
